Spa Tec's Home Remedy

For cleaning Spa, Hot Tub or Pool filter cartridges that use Chlorine or Bromine as a sanitizer.


 1. Remove the cartridge from the filter housing following the manufacture’s instructions. Do Not allow filter cartridge to dry before proceeding.


 2. Use a garden hose with a straight flow nozzle to wash down the filter element. Work from the top down,holding the nozzle at a 45 degree angle, and spray all the pleats with emphasis between the pleats.


 3. Have a suitable plastic container available to immerse the entire filter cartridge(s) under cleaning mixture. 


    Mixture: One cup of automatic dishwasher detergent like Cascade with Four Tablespoons of TSP(Tri-Sodium Phosphate)*see definition below, with Five gallons of hot water.


 4. Immerse filter cartridge completely in cleaning solution and hold it under with a suitable object. Allow to soak for 24 hours or more.


 5. Thoroughly spray out the filter cartridge with water to remove waste and cleaning solution. Note: Do Not scrub the pleats or use a pressure washer it will damage the filter cartridge. Inspect the filter for torn pleats or cracked end caps as you proceed, replace if necessary. This solution removes Organic Waste: Body Oils, Lotions, soaps and other contaminants. Do Not dispose of mixed cleaning solution onto lawn or vegetation.


 If the filter cartridge meets your approval re install or allow to dry thoroughly for the next use.


 If the filter cartridge is stained orange, black or has a white crusting proceed with the next steps.
   

1. Read Warning below before proceeding.


 
2. Mix 3/4 cup of *Muratic Acid per one gallon of water in a suitable container large enough to immerse filter cartridge(s). 



3. Immerse filter cartridge completely in cleaning solution and hold it under with a suitable object. Allow to soak for 24 hours or more.
 

 4. Thoroughly spray out the filter cartridge with water to remove minerals and cleaning solution.


 If the filter cartridge meets your approval re install or allow to dry thoroughly for the next use.


 WARNING: Failure to remove all oils and cleaning solution from the first process before acid soaking will result in a permanent restriction of water flow and cause premature cartridge failure. Wear rubber gloves when handling acid or acid soaked filter cartridge(s). Do Not add water to acid, add acid to water. Do Not dispose of mixed cleaning solution onto lawn or any vegetation.


 * TSP and Muratic Acid can be found in the paint section of better supplied stores.

http://www.spatecservice.com