Spa Tec's instructions for sanitizing Spa (Hot Tub) systems:

Prelude:
- Determine vessels water capacity - Refer to owners manual. Generally an 8' by 8' vessel will hold 400 
   to 500 gallons of water depending on the seat configurations.
- Have clean filter cartridges ready. For a home remedy on how to properly clean click this page link: 
   http://www.spatecservice.com/spa--hot-tub-filter-cleaning.html.
- Have a clean spa cover ready. For a home remedy on how to properly clean click this page link:
   http://www.spatecservice.com/spa--hot-tub-cover-cleaning-and-advice.html

Steps:
1. Fill vessel at least one inch higher than manufactures recommended water level to cover usual  
   water line or any scum lines. Do not over flow. Using a garden hose filter is  
   highly recommended from Spa Tec for troubled water supplies or not. Lets remove 
   any impurities before they enter the vessel. See Fig.1 below.
2. Install clean filter cartridge(s). 
 3. Activate all water pumps to prime system. Ensure water is coming out of all jets prior to proceeding.  Some spas have jets that can be manually turned off at the jet face - See Fig.2 below. If diverter valve jet selectors are installed try to find the middle setting so water flows from both sets of jets.
4. Open manual air control knobs slightly (knobs that add air to the jetted water) if equipped.
5. Adjust P.H. to the ok or ideal range on your test kit. This could take up to 24hrs. to perform depending on the water supply. City water should already be ideal but test for it anyway. 
 6. After P.H. is ideal add mineral inhibitor (stain and scale control) if minerals like iron, calcium or lime are a problem in the water supply used.
Note: For enclosed Spas ventilate the room by opening windows and/or turning on fans prior to proceeding.
7. With all water pumps running on high speed; add regular household bleach directly to the water at a ratio of 1/2 cup per 50 gallons of water. Allow to run on high speed to mix and strip plumbing system. If the spa has automatic off settings like after 20-30 minutes, re activate at the end of the cycles a couple more times to flush the plumbing system.
8. Activate if equipped: Forced air blowers, misters or any other water feature multiple times for at least 10-15 minutes per activation to ensure solution is in them. Example; forced air blower systems purge water out of fiberglass air channels or pvc manifolds prior to air bubbles exiting the injector ports and into the vessel. The idea is to flush out the water and allow solution mix to enter the air cavities to break down contaminants. Turning on and off air blowers and other water features multiple times will accomplish that and also flush out contaminant particles into the spa.
9. Turn spa power supply off.
10. Skim water of large particles with a leaf skimmer or butterfly net. 
11. Clean suction screen(s) see Fig.3 below with a clean brush on a pole and skim out.
12. Remove filter cartridge(s) and rinse out with garden hose sprayer, Then re install.
13. Turn spa power supply on, set to normal cycle used for heating and filtration.
14.  Install clean spa cover.

 Allow 3-4 days for bleach to dissipate before planning on usage or adding other sanitizers to maintain normal water chemistry. Use a Chlorine test kit to determine level.

http://www.spatecservice.com