Spa Tec's instructions for an "average" size tub 40-60 gallons, larger tubs will require slightly more chemicals.

1. Fill the tub up to the over flow if equipped or about 2-3 inches above the highest wall jets with hot water.

2. Turn off the air induction valves (knobs that add air to the water) if equipped. This reduces suds mess.

3. Ensure all wall jet nozzles are open fully. Refer to manual from tub manufacturer.

4. Add 1/4 cup of granular- automatic dishwasher detergent like Cascade.

5. Add one tablespoon of TSP (Tri-Sodium Phosphate). *See definition at bottom of page.

6. Add 1/2 cup of laundry or household bleach and turn on ventilation fans in bathroom.

Notice: If your tub has both water jets and air pumps complete both 7A and 7B.

7A. Jetted Baths - Activate the wall Jets on high speed for 20-30 minutes to mix and strip contaminants from pipes, pumps and jets. Turn Jets off and let it sit (soak) for 20-30 minutes minimum, Then activate Jets again for another 20-30 minutes to purge. The flushing action created by activating jets and soaking breaks down contaminants in the pipes, pumps and jets which go down the drain. Repeat process if you feel it's necessary.
7B.  Air Baths - Activate air pump on high speed for at least 5-10 minutes to mix, turn off and let combination of water and disinfectants to refill air chamber (which is where the contaminants are located), let soak for several hours to break down contaminants. Then activate air pump to purge for another 5-10 minutes.  The flushing action created by soaking and purging breaks down contaminants in the air chamber which go down the drain. Repeat process if you feel it's necessary.

8. Drain the tub, rinse vessel surface with clean water from shower wand or bucket forcing particles down to the drain, Do not allow particles to dry onto vessel surface.

9. Refill with cold water and activate all the Jets and/or Air pump for a few minutes as a rinse cycle for the pipes, pumps, wall jets and air injectors.  Do not skip this step, it is important to flush out all remaining chemicals from the system to avoid corrosion.

10. Drain the tub, rinse vessel surface with clean water from shower wand or bucket forcing particles down to the drain, Do not allow particles to dry onto vessel surface.

11. Wipe down tub surface with soft cloth or micro fiber cloth (Best Choice) to shine finish.  

12. If you love your tub, wax ( Automotive surface type) the vessel surface walls - not the floor, it will be slippery. Wax the chrome type or brass finishes on jets and faucets or fixtures to help prevent water spots and mineral build up - do not wax Jet nozzles.

 If your tub is still spewing debris after this method, there is considerable build up, repeat the process and increase the amount of running time(s) and for the best results the soak time can be left over night or longer. 

 If you consistently have problems with mineral type build up like Iron, Calcium or Lime consider finding a plumber to install water line filters to the faucets hot and cold water supply pipes (Preferably between the shut off valves and the fill spout assy, so they can be replaced easily in the future if needed). When do they need replacement you ask? After the inline filters are installed notice the amount of time it takes to fill your vessel. At a later date you will notice it takes a lot longer to fill the vessel than it use to, trapped particles slow down the water flow rate. Replace at your discretion from there. Inline filters vary in particle size entrapment called microns, the smaller the micron the finer it filters. They also vary in duties like: sediment only or multiple symptoms type. Have the proper ones installed to suit your application. After initial installation the water flow rate will slow down due to the added restriction caused by the filters, but consider it polished water.

 Note: Micro Fiber cloth "Slightly Dampened" with water is also a great way to clean faucets, mirrors and glass. No chemicals needed.

 *Tri-sodium phosphate (TSP), is a cleaning agent, stain remover and de greaser, It is a white, granular or crystalline solid commonly used to prepare surfaces for painting. It can also be called tri-sodium orthophosphate and has the chemical formula Na3PO4. It is a highly water-soluble ionic salt. Solutions of it dissolved in water have an alkaline pH. Tsp is no longer an ingredient found in residential automatic dishwasher detergents. Commercial situations in which dishes must be absolutely clean and sanitary demand detergents that work. It's the reason the professional grade detergents used by hotels, restaurants, and hospitals still contain phosphates(TSP). 

 *TSP (Na3PO4) can be found in the paint section of better hardware stores.


http://www.spatecservice.com
